---
layout: post
title:  "Title V - The Judicial Branch"
permalink: /Statutes/TitleV/
categories: Statutes
toc: true
---

> Last Revised: 4-3-19
>
> Originally Written by: Session 4 LEB

## Title 5 The Judicial Branch

<p style="margin-left:5%">Chapter 500: Judicial Composition and Authority</p>
<p style="margin-left:5%">Chapter 501: Judicial Rules of Procedure</p>
<p style="margin-left:5%">Chapter 502: Ranking Officers of the Judicial Branch</p>
<p style="margin-left:5%">Chapter 503: Rights of an individual Before the Court</p>
<p style="margin-left:5%">Chapter 504: Temporary Justices</p>
<p style="margin-left:5%">Chapter 505: Judicial Meetings</p>

<style>
	#legal-list { 
		counter-reset: section; 
		counter-increment: section -1;
	}
	#legal-list h3:before { 
		content: "50" counter(section) ". ";
		counter-increment: section;
		margin: 0 0.5em 0 0;
	}
	#legal-list ol {
		counter-reset: clause;
		list-style: none outside none;
		text-indent: -1em;
	}
	#legal-list ol li { counter-increment: clause; }
	#legal-list ol li:before {
		content: "50" counter(section) "." counters(clause, ".") ". ";
		margin: 0 0.5em 0 0;
	}
</style>

<html>
<body id="legal-list">
	<h3>Judicial Composition and Authority</h3>
	<ol>
		<li>The composition and authority of the Judicial Branch shall be as contained in the SGA Constitution under Article 5, Section 3, Parts A, B, and C.</li>
	</ol>
	<h3>Judicial Rules of Procedure</h3>
	<ol>
		<li>The Judicial Branch Trial Procedures will govern the procedures for trials within the Judicial Branch.</li>
	</ol>
	<h3>Ranking Officers of the Judicial Branch</h3>
	<ol>
		<li>The following are ranking officers of the Judicial Branch
			<ol>
				<li>The Chief Justice</li>
				<li>The Senior Justice</li>
			</ol>
		</li>
		<li>Duties of the Chief Justice:
			<ol>
				<li>Call and Reside over all meetings</li>
				<li>Supervise the administration of the Judicial Branch</li>
				<li>Keep all records of the Judicial Branch necessary to follow Public Record Retention Laws.</li>
				<li>Maintain an understanding of major events occurring in SGA</li>
				<li>Complete additional tasks as outlined in SGA Constitution</li>
				<li>Appoint a Judicial Clerk and Judicial Marshal as needed.</li>
			</ol>
		</li>
		<li>Duties of the Senior Justice:
			<ol>
				<li>All the responsibilities of an Associate Justice</li>
				<li>Act as the Chief Justice when they are absent</li>
			</ol>
		</li>
		<li>These roles will be further described in the Judicial Handbook/ROP</li>
	</ol>
	<h3>Rights of Individuals before the Court</h3>
	<ol>
		<li>The Supreme Court will create a file for each case heard.</li>
		<li>Individuals appearing before the Supreme Court will be guaranteed the following:
			<ol>
				<li>The right to due process.</li>
				<li>The right to an expedient trial.</li>
				<li>The right to be aware of Supreme Court Procedures.</li>
				<li>The right to be heard by quorum.</li>
				<li>The right to be heard without ridicule, interference, or unnecessary interruption.</li> 
				<li>The right to ask any Justice any questions concerning any procedural matter or concerning rights and privileges of the individual before the Supreme Court.</li>
				<li>The right to be free from slanderous remarks or unwarranted accusations during any Supreme Court proceedings.</li>
				<li>The right to representation of counsel by a fellow student of their choosing, or the right to self-representation.</li>
				<li>All parties in a trial must notify the Supreme Court who will be representing them at least twenty-four (24) hours before a trial.</li>
			</ol>
		</li>
	</ol>
	<h3>Temporary Justices</h3>
	<ol>
		<li>The Chief Justice may appoint Temporary Justices
			<ol>
				<li>The Chief Justice shall assign an Associate Justice this duty if the Chief Justice is subject to recusal.</li>
			</ol>
		</li>
		<li>Temporary Justice qualifications
			<ol>
				<li>Temporary Justices can be appointed if there is a recusal or less than seven (7) current members of the Supreme Court.</li>
				<li>Temporary justices must meet the eligibility requirements stated in Article V. Section 3. part C. of the SGA Constitution.</li>
			</ol>
		</li>
		<li>A Temporary Justice is on the Supreme Court until
			<ol>
				<li>The individual is nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate to be a Supreme Court Justice.</li>
				<li>An individual is nominated by the President and confirmed by the Senate to the Supreme Court replacing the Temporary Justice.</li>
				<li>Their membership is no longer needed by the Supreme Court.</li>
			</ol>
		</li>
	</ol>
	<h3>Judicial Meetings</h3>
	<ol>
		<li>The Chief Justice will preside over meetings</li>
		<li>The Chief Justice will determine the time, day and place of the Judicial Branch meetings</li>
		<li>Meetings will consist of all members of the Judicial Branch</li>
		<li>Quorum for all meetings will be met with a simple majority.</li>
		<li>The Judicial Branch may define specific types of meetings in their Rules of Procedure.</li>
	</ol>
</body>
</html>