---
layout: minutes
title: "Florida Polytechnic University Senate Meeting Minutes (April 22, 2021)"
permalink: /Legislative/Senate/Session8/20210422_Minutes/
categories: Session8
---

> Date: 2021-04.22
> 
> Author: Spencer Bishop

# Attendance

| *Melia Rodriguez __Senate President__* | <strike>Catherine Abraham</strike> | *Julian Melendez* |
| *Benji Dinal __Pro-Tempore__* | *Alexander Gage* | *Charles Mc Ben Joe* |
| *Graham Gilbert __ABC Chair__* | <strike>Jake Karas</strike> | <strike>Akshad Patel</strike> |
| *Ezekiel Huynh __SOC Chair__* | *Gustavo Maldonado* | *Douglas Poole* |
| *Breanne Menikheim __ICC Chair__* | | |

> Start Time: 6:07pm

# Elect Senate Leadership

- Senate President: Melia, Benji, and Graham voice their intent.
	- Alex nominates Benji and is seconded by Malia. Benji accepts.
	- Alex nominates Graham and is seconded by Douglas. Graham accepts.
	- Benji nominates Malia and is seconded by Julian. Malia accepts.
	- The preliminary vote is Charles, Brianne, Malia, Gustavo and Julian for Malia.
	- Graham, Ezekiel, and Doug vote for Graham.
	- Benji and Alex vote for Benji.
	- The final vote is Charles, Brianne, Malia, Gustavo, Benji and Julian for Malia.
	- **Melia wins Senate President.**
- Senate Pro-Tempore: Benji and Graham voice their intent.
	- Benji nominates Graham and is seconded by Julian. Graham accepts.
	- Graham nominates Benji and is seconded by Julian. Benji accepts.
	- The final vote is Charles, Brianne, Benji, Ezekiel, Gustavo, Doug, Alex, and Julian for Benji. Graham for Graham.
	- **Benji wins Pro-Tempore**
- ABC Chair: Graham and Alex voice their intent.
	- Charles nominates Graham and is seconded by Doug. Graham accepts.
	- Doug nominates Alex and is seconded by Graham. Alex accepts.
	- The final vote is Graham, Charles, Brianne, Ezekiel, Gustavo, Doug and Julian for Graham. Benji and Alex for Alex.
	- **Graham wins ABC Chair.**

> Benji leaves at 6:33pm

- SOC Chair: Charles, Ezekiel and Alex voice their intent.

> Benji returns at 6:37pm

- 
	- Alex nominates Ezekiel and is seconded by Benji. Ezekiel accepts.
	- Benji nominates Alex and is seconded by Ezekiel. Alex accepts.
	- Julian nominates Charles and is seconded by Alex. Charles accepts.
	- The preliminary vote is Charles, Doug, and Julian for Charles. Graham Briane, Benji, Ezekiel and Gustavo for Ezekiel. Alex for Alex.
	- The final vote is Charles, Doug, and Julian for Charles. Graham Briane, Benji, Ezekiel, Gustavo and Alex for Ezekiel.
	- **Ezekiel wins SOC Chair**
- ICC Chair: Brianne and Julian voice their intent.
	- Graham nominates Brianne and is seconded by Alex. Brianne accepts.
	- Benji nominates Julian and is seconded by Alex. Julian accepts.
	- The final vote is Graham, Brianne, Benji, Ezekiel and Gustavo for Brianne. Charles, Doug, Alex and Julian for Julian.
	- **Brianne wins ICC Chair.**

# Vice-President Samantha Ashby
- We have big shoes to fill, and even higher goals to reach. The sky is the limit, and SGA Executive Officers, Jimmy Surin, Dr. Miller, and many more people are here to assist with any help you may need.
- A lot of students will be looking up to you, as you are student leaders for your peers around you. There is always help if anyone needs it, and there is a lot to look forward to and a lot of potential change waiting in this room of people.

# ABC Update
- Graham is the new ABC Chair.

# SOC Update
- Ezekiel is the new SOC Chair.

# ICC Update
- Brianne is the new ICC Chair.

# LEB Update
- LEB members include Malia, Benji, Graham, Ezekiel, and Brianne. The meetings will be help bi-weekly.

# Public Comment
- Dr. Miller thanks the Senior class for their hard work and dedication to the University and to SGA.
	- She personally thanks Connor for his ability to lead with determination and kindness.
	- She personally thanks Jake Greenburg for his huge workload and consistent reliability to the student body as a whole.

> End Time 6:58pm

| *Melia Rodriguez __Senate President__* | <strike>Catherine Abraham</strike> | *Julian Melendez* |
| *Benji Dinal __Pro-Tempore__* | *Alexander Gage* | *Charles Mc Ben Joe* |
| *Graham Gilbert __ABC Chair__* | <strike>Jake Karas</strike> | <strike>Akshad Patel</strike> |
| *Ezekiel Huynh __SOC Chair__* | *Gustavo Maldonado* | *Douglas Poole* |
| *Breanne Menikheim __ICC Chair__* | | |